Hi, Terrence. Hi, smita.
Hi. Hi, Manny. Good afternoon.
Uh, we'll just wait for people
to be seated and then we'll
start.
Chop chop.
Hi, Terrence. Can you hear me?
Yes, yes. Yeah. So I think we
just we're waiting for some more
people to join in once they join
in and then we can start.
Sure, sure. Whenever you can
tell us and we can get started.
Yeah. So just relax. We'll just
see more people. Uh, the case
stakeholders come in. Great.
Thank you.
Poop.
Hi, spita. Are you able to hear
us?
Yes.
Ohh, I think we can start. Uh.
Am I audible?
Yes.
So, uh, Pankaj, I request you to
set the context of the
consultation because I feel
we've already waited a long time
for people to join in. So as
they keep joining in, we'll take
their views. So Pankaja, request
you to please start the
consultation and set the
context, OK?
I will get.
Sorry, we're just waiting for
Rakesh Maheshwari. He's on his
way. He's the GC cyber law and
then we are waiting for a couple
of more people to do this step
in.
You can have a quick round of.
Introductions. Meanwhile, I
think Doctor Debu is there in
the room. Uh, doctor Debbie?
Can you?
Amen.
OK.
So thanks for inviting us. So
this is Doctor Dau. I works in
uh Erickson as a cyber security
head.
So basically, uh. For this I
worked previously with uh.
RBI, Reserve Bank of India, NNPC
I developing the UPI payment
system for the security.
And I was, uh, working for
Motorola.
For quite long time, around four
years and uh in Washington DC in
one year, then in Hyderabad for
three years developing the
various kinds of security for
Wimax system. Then I was working
for Walaja, Chief Cybersecurity
officer. There we are designing
the various kinds of security
system for telecom equipments.
So when I say telecom
equipments, we are designing for
enterprise as well as consumer
as well as the.
Our networking side, so we take
care of the regulatory aspect
and also we do take care of how
the security aspect will be
taken care in terms of when
various legislation comes in
telecom as well as from the
national Cyber Security Council
secretariat and sought in and
then I work for sometimes for
ABB.
For uh, defining the cyber
security strategy.
And uh, finally, I'm working in
uh Ericsson now, taking care of
end to end cybersecurity aspect
of managed service, how the
cyber security aspect of various
kinds of threat will be there,
how will take care of those
threats? What if there will be
any?
Ransomware attack. How will take
care of those things? We have a
uh program running called
hackme. So before Hacker hacks
you, you hack yourself and know
what are the things that you
need to do to protect yourself
and your company. So these are
the couple of things that we are
working on it over to our.
Thank you, Sir. In terms of some
of the challenges, uh, which you
have seen because you had worked
with NCI PC in the past, right
now?
Healthcare was not a critical
infrastructure and now it's been
turned into a critical
infrastructure. So what are some
of the changes that you will see
primarily for the healthcare
sector, you know would would we
expect some kind of new
regulation to come out or
whatever. So this is a very, you
have very rightly told I was
going through a report. In the
report I find out that if a
healthcare system is getting
attacked then the percent will
be deprived of its treatment.
For almost 19 days.
One or other form. So that is
the kind of uh digitization is
happening and the kind of things
that will impact and if you see
uh it has been increased for the
last year by 74 percentage.
And currently what we are
finding 14163 attacks are
happening per week which is
getting a lot of momentum that
healthcare industry need to be
taken care. When we say
healthcare industry basically we
are following the standard
called published by HIPAA and
those American standard is a
very good standard and we are
following it and this is how
actually we have to.
Uh, customized in terms of
Indian requirements and the
Indian requirements, you will
find out we have uh recently we
have seen couple of attacks
happening in the Indian
scenario. So in this context you
will find out they're not
attacking with a very
sophisticated.
Cyber attacks what they are
doing, they are sending some
kind of missing meds.
And they're targeting some kind
of weak links where actually if
they will click that links then
the ransomware will just sit
down.
And it will not create any kind
of its action. So that means
when the EXE file will be there,
the EXE file will not get
executed immediately. So what is
happening the EXE file will
throw another exe file.
The moment it will throw another
EXE file and that will get
activated based on the attacker
which has been programmed and
which has been taken the time.
So in that. Many people will
lose that they are not able to
track what is going. They will
say oh I have a downloaded a
link which is a very good link
and nothing has happened. But
that link creates a EXE file and
that EXE file will create
another EXE file and that will
in the back end it will execute.
The moment it will be executed
it will create a lot of hard
work regarding. You have rightly
told we need to have new
legislation should be brought in
terms of.
I mean in the medical sector,
because uh, we are our, uh,
Digital Privacy Act is coming.
So I hope I have not gone
through it. Maybe they have
covered the healthcare aspect of
some extent.
But it is very essential to
consider considering the UK
scenario. Considering the US
scenario where actually a lot of
attacks has been happened, it is
very much essential to find out
a new legislation and that new
legislation should be up India
specific because why I say India
specific, the reason being is
that.
We are not 100% digital. We are
in the midst of going for
digitization. So that means when
you transition there is a
probability of attack is very
often will happen. So that way
it will be half summit.
Thank you. Thank you, Doctor Abu
uh I'll uh let uh, Terence, uh
come in here. Terence is the
head for cybersecurity business
and national security officer
for Microsoft. Welcome Terrence
and thank you for finding time.
You know, Microsoft has been
doing some significant amount of
work securing the healthcare
sector and we did get a chance
to some of the findings which
have been shared in the past. So
you know, over to you tenants.
Thank you.
Thank you. Thank you, Manish and
again good evening to my
esteemed guest speakers and
people who have joined both in
person and online, it's a
privilege to spend and share my
thoughts as well as you know,
your your thoughts and learn
together. As I share my point of
view, I thought you know, to
also make sure that I can
present it so that you can see
what I'm actually trying to
articulate and share with you. I
don't have many slides, I just
thought I'll use one or two to.
Navigate the conversation uh and
and make sure that you know I
can be followed online. So when
we were at Microsoft as you know
like the the Microsoft Digital
crimes Unit, this is a division
that has been put in place
predominantly to look at
cybersecurity you know and
protect I would say for the
larger good and this is where a
lot of threat analysis,
intelligence and threat sharing
works across both public and
private sector space when you're
looking at healthcare and the
trends that are happening in the
healthcare.
Notice these six, uh that are
actually quite evident in the
last few months and as as I've
also mentioned right, phishing
is a growing challenge. I didn't
bring up speak about fishing,
but definitely fishing is also
growing challenge. We just call
out some of the key things that
are you know that are I would
say targeting this industry.
Ransomware definitely is the
number one issue that we are
seeing here and and we all know
that we've heard about certain
healthcare providers.
Who were locked out and were
unable to provide patient care
and were held at ransom.
Attackers are really looking at
ways to leverage this to their
advantage and and put that you
know in fact they don't even
hesitate putting patients lives
at risk and that's a serious and
so on. The second thing that we
are also seeing is the connected
medical devices and the
vulnerabilities that they bring
in. That's another thing that we
you know we are seeing which
needs to be also put into place
when we're thinking about cyber
security.
And and what all should the
scope of a cyber security
framework look like in that of
course data breaches around the
rise. We know patient data, PII
data is something that is of
interest to the underground
criminals and they are looking
at ways to monetize that. So
this industry is continues to
see that threat and we also see
some rise of the insider threat
where either accidentally or
intentionally internal employees
sometimes go rogue and and lead
to data compromise and.
Cyber compromises. The other
thing that we also are seeing is
yes, we speak about BYOD, we
speak about mobile device
security, but specifically in
this sector in a mobile device
security, something that still
has some work to do. We still
see health data, patient data
access being given to the the
the entire Community or the
supply chain that forms a part
of the health sector. And many a
times you may not have full
control on the supply chain.
All the third party providers
that are part of the healthcare
network, especially third party
contractors or outsourced
organizations. So I think when
we're looking at security.
And when we're, you know, kind
of debating on what, what should
be the way forward. I think
these are also some of the
points I thought I'll lay on the
table for us to deliberate and
and think about as we look at,
you know, what should the future
look like when it comes to
security in the healthcare
space.
Back to you. Thank you.
Thanks uh Terrence.
Garima Smita, you have got any
anything that you want to add?
Hi, Ganesh. No, I think since
I'm representing Microsoft,
Terrance already spoke. So I'll
come in later if I have an
incremental. Thanks. So I'll,
I'll thanks. I'll bring in Amit
Dubey, he's a well renowned
cyber security expert and he saw
a lot of cyber crime which
impacts healthcare as well as
other critical infrastructure.
You know he's solved multiple.
Crime investigations, which
include ransomware attacks and
his work closely with NCIC
earlier. Yeah, Amit, over to
you. Thanks. Thank you, ganish.
And I think this is the most
sensitive area for cyber
security, a part of the defense
I think Healthcare is uh.
Uh, the mostly targeted sector
uh that we have seen in last one
year, we have uh also lost lots
of revenue trust across
healthcare sector and such kind
of initiations to include it in
critical infrastructure or to.
Create a spatial framework for
healthcare. Security framework
for Healthcare is the need of
the hour.
I was partially part of the AMS
investigation. I was part of
many other such recent attacks
investigation. So I I have my
own learning that how all these
attacks originated and from
where they were originated and
we could attribute it to to a
great extent to the state
sponsored bodies.
And that shows that uh, the
there is no dearth of uh sort of
a tools and technologies
available with these actors.
And that's why a sector which is
so vulnerable otherwise.
In Ames case, basically we have
seen that it was uh, it was
following the regular audit
processes.
Uh, they had a right audit just
three months back. They had a
report and despite of that, it
has happened.
And you identified few
vulnerabilities though in the
system, but there were multiple
factors, so we cannot.
We cannot make any one such
factor responsible for this
entire attack because there were
multiple things and that that
shows that that itself say that.
Whoever was actually planning
this, they they they were
actually trying it through
multiple channels.
They faced a similar attacks few
months back. They lost some
data. At that time they didn't
realize, but then eventually the
current somewhere was
successful.
And the 41357 vulnerabilities of
e-mail or any other such
vulnerability which was
exploited. This was not fixed in
time.
So if I could extend beyond
what?
We have just heard from the
expert.
Regular patching is definitely a
big big issue which I have
observed in most of these cases.
Uh, the softwares are not
updated, especially the emails
servers and the VPNs. And the
other thing is we need a
continuous auditing process
instead of.
By.
But you're like having uh
monthly or or or quarterly or
even having two audits in a year
will not be sufficient
especially for healthcare sector
because it is a very dynamic and
new kind of devices keeps on
adding.
I also suggest one, if possible,
to generate a framework which
could be blockchain based
configuration management.
Why it is so? Because we have
seen people are changing
configurations of many of these
servers frequently.
And if we could restrict that.
Or we could uh.
Create a system back end system
which could.
Be self learning that OK, this
system cannot be manipulated.
This configuration cannot be
changed because of a back end
blockchain which is managing all
these things.
I think that will help and that
is not only for healthcare
sector. This is this. This is
applicable for any other sector
where we have not utilized yet
the power of blockchain.
And this is something which
later on when we do as a root
cause analysis, we realized
there were multiple people those
were changing these
configurations. They were
playing with those
configurations because of many
reasons, because they receive a
request.
This would have come through and
spoof e-mail or this would have
come from an authentic e-mail,
doesn't matter but any such
firewall disabling or making it
lenient.
Can result to any such attempt.
Uh, attack uh very soon, so it
happens.
You said rightly Sir that
ransomware is #1, but ransomware
is also becoming sophisticated
now. So whatever technologies
that we had to stop ransomware
now it is not working. And
that's why I think we need much
more sophisticated backup data
plans. I was not bothered
because of this attack happened
on healthcare. I was much more
bothered because we could not
recover from it soon. So
incident response was not
proper.
See, we cannot guarantee that
the attacks will not happen or
or we can stop any such attack
instantly. No, it it won't this,
this kind of expectation is, I
think, not normal. We can
recover quickly. We should have
a provision, we should have a
proper IR mechanism in place so
that just like NHS, when they
had one 1A cry and they could
recover soon, within two to
three days, I think aims took
close to 12 to 13 days, which
was too much for an healthcare
sector.
So we should have a provision,
proper provision for IR where we
could recover within an hour or
two hours or three hours at Max.
I think that is something which
we should plan and if we could
achieve that sort of SLA.
That will itself. Uh Harris, the
attackers.
So I think that is something
which which will go against them
right now they are confident
that they can actually put this
damage for a longer duration and
can actually.
Result into a bigger losses in
many many ways, revenue wise or
reputation wise or maybe data
wise itself. So I think these
are the things which which I see
and I'm I'm strongly
recommending it to become a part
of the critical infrastructure
body of India and there are.
Few other processes that should
be required because most of
these healthcare sensors and
devices.
They are being imported through
various countries.
They followed different
protocols and security is the
last priority for most of them.
I'm referring mostly the
diagnostic devices. So I was
doing an audit of one of such
hospital and realized that
because of these multiple kind
of protocols they're not
integrated in a smoother way. So
they are managing it through
different independent servers
and that itself is a challenge
that because if you are not.
Not actually following security
processes for each and every
devices. Actually you are
creating loopholes and any such
gap will result to damage the
entire system.
So I think we need lots of
effort to create.
Uh.
The standards for healthcare
sectors for for, for protocols
and IoT sensors and and also
servers especially because they
they, they they have to manage
the real time data which is very
very sensitive and.
I think this other kind of
provisions will not be
applicable here. So these are
few my objective few of my
observations that I have seen in
recent such attacks.
Yes, there were threats due to
insiders. Also we received lots
of such complaints from many
such companies to they do not
want to reveal about ransomware
attacks. But but then we realize
that 50% of the time.
It is a job of insider as well.
So ransomware as a service is
also coming in a big way uh, the
Black Hat the the the the the
group from Russia they were
offering it as a ransomware as a
service and we also learned that
they were they were they were
they were offering a service and
in in in revenue sharing model
7030 or 8020 like whatever we'll
collect we'll pass it to you.
And so the way they want to
reach out to these companies
through Insiders insider will
make money. So I think this we
need to learn.
That we need to somehow create
some processes to to check
integrity of people and to make
them more responsible about it.
Right now I think these
processes are missing.
Thank you.
So coming to a more basic
question, what could be the
possible reasons why the
healthcare sector is one of the
most targeted?
Who would like to answer? I
yeah, please.
Uh, in telecom sector, basically
I'm just giving analogy. If you
see in the telecom sector, they
are basically going for a basic
hygiene test, what we call as a
MBS configuration in the MBS,
minimum security baseline
standard need to be configured
in all the equipments. And then
we do a VPT to find out what are
the loopholes, how many ports
are open, how many unnecessary
services are open, what are the
various services are running,
what are the various kinds of
services.
Catering to what extent to other
it's a catering to governments
PDF services or it is catering
to the public health. So we have
to consider all these factor
into account. But when it comes
to medical devices, most of the
medical devices are not scanned
or they're not be PT. They have
been done on that devices and
these devices are #1. These
devices are not down the
respective B scans.
That is number one. Second to is
there is a security policy need
to be implemented and these
security policy once you
implemented it has to be
percolated to different levels
which has not been case in the
medical segments. So basically
if we the security policy if we
see the have been a very robust
security policy has been
designed in other sectors as you
rightly told that now it has
been the Healthcare is now
added.
And the CIP, previously it was
not a critical infrastructure.
So the policy which has been
drafted, if we see NCI PC's that
need to be customized for the
healthcare system, it will take
time. In the I'm giving example
of Indian scenario, it will take
the time to configure those kind
of big hospital systems. It will
not percolate to the users
immediately. And the third most
important thing is you have to
create a user awareness program,
so in medical.
Basically what will happen there
are so much of peoples are
engaged in their daily
day-to-day life. So they cyber
security take us after thought
rather than it is a bolt in
process what we called as a it
is a built in process that means
cybersecurity. They will say OK,
we'll see it in the letter, let
the other critical services is
important for them. So that way
actually you have to understand
since we are going a
digitization.
We are not or no more in the
same mode as we are operated in
terms of like mechanical where
actually you can take some time.
As Amija rightly told it will be
12 days to recover. Is it too
much? You should have a specific
incident response plan how it
has been defined. It is normally
defined in the security policy.
So that those kind of things at
least need to be known by the
basically if you go to all the
hospitals, I have been done a
little bit of survey after this
incident this hospitals do not
have a seizure.
They have an IT officers.
Information technology officers
which they look after all their
networks. So you need a
dedicated sisso which will
understand the network, which
will understand the
applications, which will
understand where the servers
have been placed, which will
understand what are the critical
presents data, where it is going
and where it is being stored.
And you will also understand as
Amidi rightly told, what are the
barriers, backup processes, how
frequently you are taking
backup, your critical datas. So
all this that need to be changed
then you will find out the
medical system, the robustness
will come. That was the case in
2011, I will say in the telecom
sector also in India, when
actually we started the telecom
security new regulation. So
that's why I whatever connects
told you need a dedicated.
Security.
Regulation for telecom sectors,
so that will actually.
One way or other way it will
once it will comes from
government, it will force to
implement by all the players.
Reason.
For me, asking that question
was, does it mean that the
healthcare sector was like a
sitting duck waiting to be
attacked considering the fact
that in 2021 or 22 if I'm
correct?
It was the Indian healthcare
system especially. It was one of
the most attacked in the world
only after the US, especially
when it came to cyber attacks.
So does it mean only it was
because of the lack of any laws,
regulations for the sector? No,
not exactly.
The reason being is that Indian
healthcare systems have been
targeted because of we have
dedicatedly created a very good
vaccine.
Because of that, they want to
understand not only the
medicals, also our where
actually the vaccines has been
manufactured, how it has been
manufactured, there have been a
lot of state actors are also
behind it to know you mean the
COVID vaccines, yes.
So that that is 1 motivation for
knowing what are the how.
Actually India is much ahead
than others to know a lot of
things. So that is the one
aspect. The other aspect I told
you 14163 attacks per week is
happening to Indian medical
systems.
College 14163 in per week is
happening to the Indian medical
system. It is not by me, it is
given in the research.
The research finding explain, so
if that is coming so basically
what happens?
Once this, that means, uh, they
are also being blocked. It is
not that Indian medical system
do not have a firewall, do not
have ideas or they do not have a
CM tool. All these things are
there. But what amazed rightly
told, it's a sophisticated
ransomware which has been
coming.
I have not gone through uh AMS
case, but I have gone through
the NHS case. What has happened
when they they click that link?
That receptionist the link has
downloaded the moment it has
been downloaded that EXE file.
That EXE file does not created
any hub.
It throws another ex file to 10
persons.
And that created sending and
disrupting the computers. So
this is how actually they have
embedded or run somewheres are
coming in the near future. So
which has been developing by the
dark web and you can go through
it, you will find out lot of
ransomwares which have been
dedicatedly for working for the
medical systems.
So recently also in Black Hat
Conference, we'll find out there
are a lot of discussions
happening in the medical systems
because they feel because of
this pandemic this has been
sharp rise.
So what we saw had happened in
the UK post NHS there were
advisories which were there. So
for example if any healthcare
systems gets hacked then what
needs to be done? What are the
resources that are available?
Right. What are some of the best
practices that need to be
followed? Uh, post the incident.
Uh, if you look at today, what
happened in?
Aims, uh, you know, what are
some of the key learnings that
India could look ahead? We only
can go to the websites of NCI,
PCC or CERT. So if we, India
will have to develop advisories
or we'll have to build up a
mechanism for incident response.
What are some of the aspects
that need to be developed,
tenants want to?
Yeah, thanks, kanish. Can you
hear me?
Yeah.
Yeah. No, I think this is very
interesting uh, discussion over
the last 15 odd minutes slide.
And the first thing uh, when
there was a question said why
are we getting targeted so much
and and what are we missing and
they will again promptly said we
do not have AC so in the
healthcare industries yet. And
the practitioners who are
actually looking after the
infrastructure are are more IT
or software or application
oriented. I think there is a
need one for a very clear
directive also.
Because sometimes it's, you
know, there is something like is
nice to have and something that
is must have. I think it's time
that cyber security regulation
or or norm becomes more like a
must have for you know, for
healthcare in India. That is one
that's my point of view, right.
And whether that's, you know,
having a CSO and then there's
various other form factors or
procedures like for example if
we just look at our banking
sector, I mean that's a great
example of the work that RBI has
done and the amount of.
Education and knowledge sharing
and and and guided guidelines
that have been put in place that
has really strengthened the
structure and of course we can
do more there but I think you
know that's a that's a good
mature sector to look at and
learn from and today Healthcare
is becoming you know critical
sector for us and and that is
where the future is in terms of
digitization and accessibility
for, for, for even for beyond
the metros and as you go into
the.
You know, the smaller cities and
villages and all, so it's very
critical that we have the right
framework in place. You know, we
put that and then that really
builds the highways for creating
a digital healthcare
infrastructure for the future.
You know, while you were
involved in investigating the
aims attack, right? And there
were multiple agencies, what
were some of the keys
challenges? You think there were
more cooks in the room?
Were there access to resources?
Was there information sharing?
What, what, what, what are some
of the key learnings?
Unfortunately.
Yeah, sure. Please, please.
Sorry, was that question for me
or was that for that for
somebody in the room? I
couldn't. No, that was for Amit
since he was involved in. Yeah,
yeah, yeah, go ahead. Go ahead.
I was just, I thought it's funny
and I was like, I was not part
of the investigation. So I'm
sorry. I was part of the
investigation. That's why.
People, I'll give you a few
informations that every such
agency, those were involved,
they had a different mandate,
they were not doing the same
thing. For example, if Delhi
Police was involved or CPI was
involved and even later they
they look from an IT perspective
as well. I 4C was involved. So
every agency has a different
mandate. Some of them were
trying to find the root cause,
some of them were trying to
attribute it to somewhere, some
of them were trying to recover
the data or some of them were
trying to see that if there is
any insider possibility.
So I think we need to understand
that each of this mandate is
different and they require
different sort of work.
If you say that, why could not
they record because none of them
were actually trying to recover
the data. They they had a
different mandate and they were
working in that direction. So
that's why it took time and that
their existing IT system or the
manager when we.
When they were discussing, and
somehow I was asking, the basic
processes involved in their
day-to-day operations.
And when I realized like they
didn't have a backup process or
they were missing some of these
regular check process, I became
little furious. And then I
realized like the person who is
in front of me, he he mentioned
that I'm a doctor.
So I was shocked that you had a
doctor and I was thinking you
are an IT guy. So that's why I
was expecting these things from
you. He said no, no, I'm a
doctor, but I'm, I'm holding
this responsibility. So this was
first such shocking moment for
me and I think this is happening
with every such other hospital
that they they give this as an
additional responsibility to a
doctor. They they, they don't
have a dedicated person,
technical person who could
actually answer these questions.
And we are taking it to like I
think I agree with all other
such panelists that.
That they this is their uh site.
Responsibility, not a main
responsibility. And this was my,
my, my, my, such first-hand
experience.
And then I said, OK, if you are
a doctor, then um, who is doing
what? Can you tell me the
people, those are responsible
for that?
And then I realized that he is
the only person who's doing many
things. So. So I think these are
some of the revelations. And
then we had to start afresh, OK,
let we'll go to the system,
we'll see that what all
possibilities are there. We need
to create clones of the data and
then distribute it across
multiple agencies so that they
can start working from their
angles, capturing the log. So
basic things were also missing.
They didn't have even. What do I
say?
That if I will ask that OK, if
there is a Wi-Fi system in
place, who is managing that
Wi-Fi and what were the password
policies even this thing was not
proper?
So they said, oh, there's a
person who knows about it, we'll
get, we'll get it, we'll get it.
So I said, oh, if he's the
person, if he's not available,
and if he's on leave, then who
is responsible doesn't have
answer. So I think we can
realize.
Poor situation of our IT
networks and hospitals and this
is a learning.
And then I asked like why? Why
is? Why is it so?
So they told me that we never
thought that anybody would
attack hospitals.
This was their mindset problem
as well. They said no, no, I
think why would anybody will
attack hospital, what they'll
get out of it.
This is just some healthcare
data, so I think the next
problem is that they don't
understand the value of data.
And unless until you don't
understand the value of your
asset, you will not put that
focus to protect.
So this is something which we
cannot just implant all of a
sudden through policies. It
should come through some top
level mandate to be passed to
them that, oh, this is required
because of the national interest
and there are people that are.
Those are going to monitor it on
a regular basis. So I think
these are the things which is
missing right now and every
hospital and these are the
government hospital and when I
see the private hospital as
well, they are also going
through the similar kind of
patch holes and loopholes. So I
have visited few private
hospitals also because on breach
point we got some information,
there is a website I'm just
missing which which publishes
the data breaches.
And uh, we were just looking
into those informations. We
found that in India before Ames
there were close to thousand
such attacks. I think Sarah has
mentioned rightly thousand 1463
something this number of attacks
within two weeks or one week I
I'm sure.
And there were uh successful uh
such attempts on few South
Indian hospitals and the data
was there.
So I was asked to just look into
those root causes as well, that
is it the similar kind of
ransomware or is it different?
The attack vector or the source
of attack? Whether it could be
attributed to the same people.
And we were doing that
additional work as well along
with investigating the aims. So
I think there were multiple
learnings. First of all, I'm not
supposed to reveal a few of
these things over here, but
these learnings can be used to
make our future better. And I'm
sure these are, this is just the
beginning, this is just the
beginning. The biggest bigger
damage could happen and we'll
probably we should not see it in
future, but it could be life
threatening as well that if
suppose some some operation is
going on at that time.
The system is collapsed and they
could not get the vital
parameters of a person. Uh, they
cannot operate a person and that
is something which can also
happen. Uh, I think we should.
Segregate. First of all, we
should have a segregation
mechanism.
An attack which was which
happened on e-mail server should
not percolate to the other
databases which happened in this
case. So e-mail communication is
a separate thing.
The Opd's management is separate
thing the.
Diagnostic servers as separate
things, so I think the
segregation should be proper
and.
That is the first thing that we
should recommend in every search
hospital second.
We should also consider uh
recent news from China. Uh, they
they cracked RSA 204 bit through
114 qubit quantum computers.
And RSA 204 bit is the basic
encryption backbone against most
of these uh database securities
or credit, debit card securities
or even VPN securities. So if
RSA 204 bit can be cracked
through 114 qubit quantum
computer which is available
today, it is not something which
we are expecting in future. I
think this is a big, this is,
this is really a serious concern
and this will, this will
threaten banking industries as
well and so all other critical
infrastructures.
So I think we need to come up
with more sophisticated quantum
safe algorithms, whether it is
crystal kyber, crystal dilithium
or any other recommendation, and
start working towards that
before it becomes too late,
because this transition will
itself take a year almost. We
have huge data, huge networks,
distributed and complex. So we
need to think from now onwards
we need to become quantum safe.
We should change all these
encryption mechanisms to
available quantum safe options.
Thank you. Very interesting
point. And I want to bring in
Doctor Debu because he's done a
lot of work, you know, on
quantum, on encryption and he's
got a lot of expertise on China
particularly. So Doctor Dibu,
over to you on some of these
aspects.
OK. He doesn't want to talk
about China. Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Because the other main views are
very personal, not related to my
company. So. So, yeah, what
Kanishk told is very important.
Whenever you have any
cryptographic methods, is there
any kind of system whether it is
a the algorithms are used?
Basically they're
cryptographically algorithms. As
Amija rightly point out, RSA
works on factorial algorithm and
elliptic curve works on group
mode arithmetic. So you need a
very stringent mathematics
understanding when you build
these kind of algorithms. What
are you finding? We need to
build the reverse analysis.
Abdul journalist algorithms
building or writing an
encryption algorithm is very
easy. Suppose I want to encrypt
some kind of data by using RSA
2048. It is very easy. I can
write an encryption algorithm by
using RSA algorithm, by using
elliptic curve algorithm or by
using quantum. But doing the
reverse engineering it will be
very very difficult what we call
in terms of cryptography
language.
We call it as a crypt analysis.
So we need to develop that
factors in our country to
understand what are the various.
If that capability we could have
been there then the attack which
has been happened which has been
encrypted the disk we could have
any immediately decrypted back.
We did not have the capability
to decrypt back what are the
datas are present. So that's why
my humble request is in the
universities.
In the undergrad students in the
PhD, we must create some kind
of.
People, those are crypto
analytics and they can have the
real power who can do this
analysis and they can decode
this kind of algorithms and they
can really decode back what are
the original messages either
suppose the messages or the
files have been stored in the
database. Database encryption
and database decryption is a
completely different processes.
If we even decrypt the database
it does not give you the enough
information.
People do not decrypt back. What
are the files stored in the
database?
Even if you go to the file
level, if you do not have the
permission level in the files
then also you do not have the
capability to do it.
So in fact when I was doing my
PhD at IIT Bombay, I used to
crack a lot of algorithms. So I
know how hard it is. You have to
spend a lot of nights and then
you will understand the how the
algorithms work in step by step.
Then you have to go in the
reverse way and you have to
crack those algorithms. So
that's why I agree with karnish.
Educational and awareness is
very important to build across
our institutes.
And across our systems, so that
we'll develop some kind of
crypto analytics and those
analytics not only help to our
cyber force, they will also help
to the nation building because
in the time of emergency as Amit
Ji rightly told the operation is
going on. If the particular
let's say heartbeat, the hacker
sitting at a distance remote
place, he will change the
heartbeat or he will change the
BP so.
You will find out there will be
a lot of parameter variation
will happen the moment actually
the robotic surgery will come.
And knowing the robotic surgery
will come, who will do the
operations. It is AI based
algorithms and these AI based
algorithms, as you are rightly
told, there are many countries
which are not transparent.
How Can you believe that they
are developing the algorithms
which will be transparent and
ethical?
So that will also create a lot
of problem in the medical
industry if they are not
purchasing the right equipment
from the trusted sources.
So that way actually it will be
very imperative to understand
how actually the cryptographic
system works and how actually we
will find out to use those kind
of systems in your system like
medical environment and then you
will decrypt back the your
information when it is
necessary.
Thank you, doctor Debu. So we've
also been joined by Kapil Madan,
who is the chief Information
Security officer for Max
Hospitals, Mr. Rakesh
Maheshwari, who is the GC cyber
law for.
Government of India, Ministry of
Electronics, Information
Technology and UH I welcome
Major General Pavan Anand, who's
a distinguished fellow at United
Services Institution of India
and director at Mudcat.
Anand, I would want to bring you
in here. So far we haven't seen
that healthcare was considered
important from a geopolitical
standpoint or in doctrines of
warfare. Healthcare was never
considered as a sector which
could be attacked, right? But
over a period of time, things
have changed. Healthcare is now
becoming.
Important so when it look at
National Safety, security or
geopolitics, what has really
changed? Is it because of
COVID-19 pandemic or is it
because of the after effects
that people have realized that
this sector also needs to be
taken into consideration? Or is
it just that we see the hackers
see more value in the data which
they get from the healthcare
sector?
Thanks, ganishka. Can you hear
me?
Uh, sorry, I came in a little
late and uh got caught up with
something else, but uh.
My apologies to everyone here.
So although I've come in late
and I seem to have missed out on
some of the uh, you know the
introductory remarks which have
been very interesting and also
from folks out, I think what I
can just throw some throw up
more issues than I can give
answers actually because.
The way the Ukraine war and the
COVID pandemic have.
Actually put us more into the
digital domain than ever before.
We seem to be more enabled, but
at the same time we are more
vulnerable.
So every sector which which is
now using the digital medium and
every sector would be using the
digital media more and more is
now going to get exposed more
and more. So as we keep
developing into them, I think we
need to keep looking at the
security aspects even more so
perhaps at some stage.
As we enter it, the security
aspect needs to be taken first
into consideration and therefore
needs to be given its due
importance. Otherwise the system
itself compromised at a critical
time means the system has no
meaning. It loses its value
within seconds after an after an
attack of this kind.
So.
Um, certainly. Uh, I can bring
out that.
During the uh Ukraine war.
What we are quite certain about
is that.
It was the Kinetic War was
preceded by.
As a series of cyber attacks to
bring down information
infrastructure off of the
Ukrainians by the Russians, and
although the narrative is more
from the US side, I dare say not
only was it protected more by
the US, but also they were
offensive attacks by the US as
well. Now, did that hit health
infrastructure? I'm not sure
about that, but will it help?
Will it hit health
infrastructure in the future?
I'm sure book.
So, um, maybe, as was brought
out in the introductory remarks
by Kanishk himself, maybe we are
heading towards health sector
becoming one of the critical
information infrastructure
issues.
Now the the United States
defense forces have also now
begun to look at the cloud as a
vulnerability. Where the cloud
is a big enabler. They have
started looking at their own
cloud as a vulnerability and are
trying to bring in regulation.
Now if you're bringing in
regulation to protect your
cloud, that is 1 aspect which
which the GC would definitely be
able to throw light upon. But is
that a physical way of
protecting yourself?
Maybe certain measures will have
to be enforced by cloud managers
and uh by cloud holders to make
sure that uh, the cloud is safe
for everyone. And this brings us
to a very critical uh thing in
India.
Are we now looking at cloud to
keep our data whether it is
health data which is getting
more and more sensitive than it
was before or is it any other
data?
And for that, should we base it
on AI based cloud rather than
just a cloud and then start
adding things to it?
My my take would be that we need
to have a cloud architecture
which is more discrete.
I mean a segregated cloud which
brings data together when
required and by only those
people who have authorization to
bring it together. That itself
will give you a lot of
protection for not only defense
forces, but all the other uh
departments as well.
Um.
I I found that a little
interesting where you both
remarked on, you know, somebody
intervening at a critical stage
in a robotic surgery. Now that
would be a really real time and
would need a very high degree
of.
No penetration to be able to
affect that.
But that could possibly come in
in the future. And uh, it would
be useful only for.
Critical surgeries for critical
people maybe where somebody
might like to interview.
Absolutely. So they remain as an
app and you know you keep
getting data and only at a
critical juncture. It's more
like an assassination attempt I
would say you either kill a man
by a bullet or you kill him
during his own surgery. So it's
it's something like that.
Otherwise yes to create general
havoc. I I agree that could that
could create a sense of you know
disarray amongst the population.
And deny a lot of services to
the population. So that sounds
in the future also something
that will have to be protected
on a, on a, on a, you know,
population on a complete
population basis, but not
really. I don't see it coming up
very much. Now we have to start
working towards it. No doubt. I
totally agree with you. So with
these thoughts, I leave it back
to kanishk. Yeah, maybe I'll
come in a little. Yeah.
Terrence, you know, make any
point on cloud?
Are we looking for more hybrid
cloud options? Uh, you know,
taking learnings from what
happened in Ukraine, uh, right,
whether there were physical
attacks on data centers and then
the entire system was shut down,
so.
Do we require more systems than
we saw companies like Palantir
actually use AI on top of the
data clouds that were being set
up. Yeah. Thank you.
Yeah. Yeah, sure. And I think
that.
The way to look at this is like.
When you look at cloud, you know
inherently there's a general
feeling that OK, what's the
security of cloud? Is my data
safe? Is my infrastructure safe?
What are the, what are the pros
and cons of it? I would say
you'll have to take a, you know,
you'll have to take a calculated
approach for the as you look at
the cloud. For example, in the
Ukraine situation, right if if
the attacks were on physical
data centers and there were no
backups, so there was no apps,
services that were running in
the cloud.
Uh, data centers that were
physically there in the in a
specific location, if they were
under attack through through a
physical warfare mechanism that
would also render the digital
services you know to be not
available and that would become
another. You know that the
direct attack on the technology
infrastructure. But at the same
time if you have a backup or if
you have your disaster recovery
or your Dr. plan running in the
cloud and as you know cloud
service providers, the data
centers, the regions, the.
The all of this is not known in
in you know in the in the public
domain so in a way you can you
know it also enables you to have
either ADR or an availability
zone and and creates still a
backup for your whether it's
critical infrastructure or
whether it is for this business
applications. I would say
depending on how you look at
risk and how you want to
mitigate it. Cloud can be a
primary option. Cloud can be a
backup.
Option cloud can be a hybrid
option. Now come into the second
concern which is generally
they're saying OK while I look
at cloud as as my secure as my
alternative for my physical data
center and to address the
availability issues. How can I
you know trust cloud and this
cloud safe? And is is my data
secure? I think Azure service
provider for example at
Microsoft.
We definitely do a lot of
knowledge sharing, do a lot of
yeah, I would say visibility
into how Microsoft secures cloud
and not just like by sharing
information, but also
participating and enlisting
ourselves for third party
audits, certifications like for
example the Microsoft Cloud is
part of the mighty empanelment,
right? So.
The cloud service provider. So I
think it's it's also not just
being being sharing of knowledge
but also getting sort of tied
and and you know being audited
and sharing how you know the
cloud is safe and secure and
building that element of trust.
So I think it's it's it's a two
way St. sharing of knowledge
sharing of information showing
how what are the steps that a
cloud service provider like
Microsoft is taking to ensure
the security of the digital
goods as well as the physical
goods.
In their in their data center
and creating more like a hybrid
approach to an organization in
case they were physically under
attack or even digitally under
attack in case of a ransomware
situation.
Thank you.
Mr. ministry.
Would want to get your views.
You know we have been discussing
on enhancing India's cyber laws
and you know there was some work
which was done particularly with
respect to making changes in the
Indian IT act. We saw the
certain rules come in. However,
what we see so far is that.
Be healthcare ecosystem, not
just healthcare but the entire
ecosystem which includes
pharmacy which holds so much
amount of our PII personal
identifiable information if
they.
Lose the data.
There is no liability, there's
no penalty. Most of the chief
information security officers
which who have been appointed
have been appointed keeping in
global regulations and not India
regulations per se. And we also
see a heavy use of IoT based
systems. We see heavy use of AI
also. They are AI enabled
systems which are being used,
chat bots being put up, so
overall.
Taking learnings from the aims
attack, Rob, what are some of
the things that Government of
India could do to enhance the
safety and security of the
health care ecosystem in India?
Thank you, kanishk.
First of all.
Let me convey that.
In respect of the existing IT
act.
There are.
Two sections which exclusively
deal with the cyber security
aspects.
One of in fact, two of them are
with respect to creation of the
specialized institutions,
particularly the computer
emergency response team.
Indian Computer Emergency
Response team as well as NCIC
for critical infrastructure.
There is Section 70 also I mean
which.
In addition to I mean creating
these two infrastructure, I mean
which which provides for
declaration of a critical.
Information infrastructure.
To be.
Notified and once notified it is
called as protected system.
And the whole idea of
notification.
Is that one the organization?
Carries out a detailed risk
analysis of what exactly is
critical with them.
And.
Critical here means
unavailability of which will
have a impact.
At a national level.
Either in terms of economy or in
terms of public health.
Or there is one more term. Maybe
I'm not, not immediately. I'm in
getting it, but the impact is at
a national level.
And to that an extent, NCC not
only I mean works for
identifying the critical
information infrastructure, it
also works for.
Identifying critical.
Sectors.
And particularly post COVID
health sector has already been
identified as a critical sector.
And as of today, if you look at.
Almost every week we are
notifying one or other.
Identified infrastructure as the
critical in, I mean as as the
protected system, so being
notified as protected systems
so. So that's one.
2nd is.
Of course from Government of
India side.
There had always been a.
A constant effort. The Cisos are
appointed in all government
organizations and the intent is
not that it is. It has to be
with respect to all government
organizations. In fact, if you
look at the the other part of
the IT Act, which is primarily
about Section 43A.
Which deals with sensitive
personal data or information and
protection of sensitive data,
personal data or information. It
also talks about anybody
corporate which is which is
processing.
The sensitive personal data in
any way.
And when I say processing means,
I mean in the entire lifecycle
of the data is starting from
collection to storage to
processing to analyze to to
maybe finally.
Archiving and disposal.
The the body corporate is
mandated.
To ensure a reasonable degree of
security.
And if I look at the spdi rules,
which not only mandate the
existence of a privacy policy,
but also mention that in order
to to to ensure and in order to
demonstrate that the
organization is doing the
reasonable or is following the
reasonable security practices.
It recommends that the
organization should comply with
ISO 27,001.
Which means a good information
security management system
should be in place.
So while for example certain
already uh, I mean it comes out
with day-to-day vulnerability
notes with day-to-day
advisories, it provided a
comprehensive set of directions
on 28th of April 2022.
And one of the learning that we
had.
Based on the IMS incident, is
that maybe?
While while we are talking of
having the, I mean the CISOS in
every government organizations,
while we are asking every
government organization to have
a.
Business continuity plan?
Certain is coming out.
Shortly with a detailed
guideline.
In respect of of course, all
government organizations and
technically, I mean actually it
will mean for all, all
organizations in the country as
to what kind of controls.
Should be in place whether they
are technical, whether they are
organizational or whether they
are process oriented. So, so
detailed guidelines are being
worked out and shall be out
shortly. I mean from from
certain perspective.
I would also like to say, I mean
going beyond what is stated in
the law, I would also like to
say that.
From uh in order to have, I
should say, secure products in
place.
As TQC, which is also part of
Ministry of Information and I
Ministry of Electronics and
Information Technology, SQC
Directorate is already working
on and is the national body for
the common criteria
certification.
I'm sure about 20 different
products have already been
tested and certified by them.
To qualify.
At different, I should say uh,
assessment level.
As the CC certified products.
The country needs more and more
such capability in the country.
And to that an extent, we also
have, uh, software.
I mean, we also have an
empanelment scheme for software
testing laboratories. So it's
not just about the products
which need to be tested, but we
also need to have the
laboratories, reasonably good
number of laboratories to be
able to test such products in
India.
And on both these accounts SQC
is already working. So I'll say
that.
1.
The existing IT law already has
certain provisions.
2.
The The government already have,
I should say, a well defined
structure and well recognized
internationally well recognized
structure in place.
Three, almost every government
organization, I mean so. So
while security is required by
everybody, of course, I mean
being in government, our domain
is primarily to is to also
ensure that government
organizations remain secure and
to that an extent, whatever is
necessary for government
organizations to be secure,
proactive measures are being
taken.
So.
From a from a policy
perspective, these things are
already in place and in the new
Digital India Act that we are
talking of a comprehensive view
of.
What the security structure? I
mean security policy of the
organizations, I mean of the
country should be.
Including maybe possibilities of
having.
More sectoral and state level
certs.
Coordination between these
sectoral and state level certs.
Visive is the national cert.
Ability to create standards in
the area of cybersecurity.
And ability to test.
Cyber security products and
systems.
Is being envisaged so.
These are some of the
initiatives in the existing and
the potential IT act and the and
from the government side.
Thank you, Mr. Maheshwari. So we
also have yeah, Doctor Debra,
please go ahead. I just have a
humble request to our honorable
speaker that ISO 27001 is a very
good regulation to be
implemented and to it is a
process oriented kind of
implementation in the healthcare
system. If we have implemented
227799 which is actually been
designed for to take care of the
health data that could be an
very good Sir.
So so.
In addition to isms, because ISS
today, if you look at the
development of ISO 27,001 and
related standards, in fact,
security and privacy.
Or or lower security and data
protection for that reason are
merging.
There is a convergence of these
two things.
So from once again from
government perspective.
Government is already working on
the digital data protection
bill.
And if things go well, very
soon, the the we we already had
gone in for public consultation
of the DP, DP bill, which was on
November 2022.
Hopefully in time to come you
will see the bill going to the
Parliament there after of course
it's the call of the Parliament
to be to be able to take, but I
do agree that 27,001 remains a
generic standard.
Has to be supplemented by the
sector sector specific
requirements.
Though it is a process standard,
it does talk of it does talk of
understanding the risks of the
corresponding I mean industry.
Corresponding or organization
and based on which.
Whatever is considered to be
necessary control.
Not just process, but also
people. Also technology. So it
it, it's a it's a convergence of
all three.
This one slide slide down, you
spoke about the certain
guidelines coming for
organizations. Will this be
subject to a minimum number that
the organization organization
should be of particular size or
will it be a blanket for all
organizations?
That's a that's a perennial
problem. No, no, I mean see
something which is like.
What certain issue last year was
a direction?
And direction means it's it was
applicable to almost every
organization the respective of
the size. And by the way, in
cyber security size does not
matter.
Even a small IoT and a
vulnerability in a small IoT can
impact and a very, I should say
low cost product can lead to
whatever level of disaster you
can think of.
So, so guidelines for that
reason or even if say I I need
to talk via so 27,001 it all
depends upon the nature of the
risks that you have.
Therefore, what is your past?
What is your likely future?
In which environment are you
working?
How critical is the business?
And to that an extent.
There is no prescriptive, I
should say, language of what
controls need to be in place. It
is for the organizations to take
call of how much is necessary.
In respect of that particular
organization and that particular
ecosystem.
I think more than employees, the
amount of data that anyone is
managing that.
Could give us a hint of risk.
For example, when WhatsApp was
acquired, they had only 50
employees, but they were
managing 450 million users.
So.
Just having employees count will
not help anyways, completely
agreeing. So, so nowadays all
these startups, they have few
guys, but they are actually
managing data of completely
aliens and millions of people.
Employees therefore means
internal risks, yeah, but at the
end of the day, number of
customers means businesses
exactly that kind of risk that
you potentially can help. But
it's I think what Ganesh can
Pankaj were trying to bring out
is that smaller organizations
should be able to afford the
kind of security that we are
talking about.
Uh and uh, I'm just trying to
understand how will we be able
to.
Enable smaller organizations to
have the funds, which to them
may not appear to be very good
ROI on the face of it, but
actually when when it comes to
reality, it isn't. There is a
hidden ROI in it.
Uh, but a smaller organization
doesn't see it so, at least in
the initial stages. So
vulnerabilities are inherent in
smaller organizations. And how
is it that they can be enabled,
at times forced and yet enabled?
Like.
Which are foundation should be
able to help.
Unfortunately there is no
shortcut.
Unfortunately there is no
shortcut and business being a
small does not mean that the the
issues may be small.
I completely agree. I mean where
the focus should be and how much
should be the focus, that
depends upon what kind of risks
are you willing to take it up.
So. So once again, I mean say
for example, certain has come
out with these directions, but
how many of them have really
implemented in letter and
spirit?
It is more of, I should say, a
business, uh, finally a business
call.
At the end of the day.
Good regulation, bad regulation.
But once again matters is an
enforcement and enforcement is
something which I do believe. I
mean an organization like Cert.
Particularly chasing people to
or or maybe seeing proactive
implementation will always be a
tough task.
But the fact remains.
That once these directions have
been issued.
Once the intent has been
conveyed.
It is very clear that the
business of cyber security or or
whichever business you are in,
cyber security has to be taken
seriously. Now. How serious you
are able to take, understand and
implement this is a matter of
time.
Thank you, uh want to bring in
Salil Mithil uh Saul had cyber
security for Reliance Jio
Infocom welcome cell. So until
you have been managing you know.
Multiple cybersecurity
compliances and audits for
Reliance Geo. And you know Geo
is obviously national critical
information infrastructure, you
know, regulated organization as
a CI. So what really changes
once an organization becomes a
CII? Do you have more audits or
is it more of checklist based
audits or you need to build out
proactive controls?
For safeguarding against cyber
attacks and what is the
effectiveness of such audits, do
the radio help you again, cyber
attacks? Because I think the
complexity of Geo is they would
face the most complex cyber
attacks given the mix of data,
telecom services which they have
and the plethora of apps which
are being provided through the
Geo marketplace. So over to you.
Thank you. Thanks Ganesh for
inviting me first of all.
So what's our was saying, I
completely agree that the size
doesn't matter and this
cyberspace and especially you
know when when you are dealing
sensitive information like
health et cetera, which is SPI.
Coming to the CIA, uh, you know,
part, you know, it's a very
interesting journey that we took
almost like uh four years back
when the discussion started. And
you know, I think industry at
large all all welcomed the
concept of CII almost five years
back when we started with
identification of CIIS and what
will be the what, what can be
defined as PII. But that journey
itself was pretty interesting.
And now we have at least some
telecommunication, a clearly
identified CI. You see what
happens is it brings.
A certain amount of seriousness
within.
You know, because ultimately you
know that, um.
That that there is a system that
you are holding which is of
national interest, right, that
that brings a lot of, you know
of course focus and ensuring
security and controls. But you
know, what I feel is more of a
difference. You know it more of
you know because things are
already, you know, for example,
tech oriented companies are
doing a lot of cybersecurity
investments and taking
initiatives, but it does bring.
More focused from the leadership
and it certainly have a strong,
uh, you know, it acts like a
deterrence. So I feel that.
Identifying scoping out CI is is
very very important and is the
most critical time which we at
least as industry we took a
couple of years all of us as a
you know and with the dot we
took some time but it has its
own benefits and to to your
question of audits you know let
me tell you cybersecurity has
gone beyond audits now so you
know audits are.
Um, you know, nobody actually
cares about audit. We are
actually facing serious issues
and compliances.
You know, we don't need a
regulator or a external
instructor to come and tell us
that you do it. It's a
necessity. It's a necessity of
the time and the more we are
growing.
You know if you don't do it.
We will not have, uh, you know,
things that we want to do. So
it's like, you know, it's a
matter of.
I would say do or die kind of a
situation. So. So that's how I
see and CI is something which
you know at least at my personal
level I have pretty much
appreciated the journey and we
are interacting closely with
with agencies and they certainly
value it and it's a pretty
positive move.
Thank you, Sir, with respect to
you know.
Lot of vendors and 3rd party
ecosystem providers, how does
the journey change for them?
Because I think the main part is
also the suppliers where most of
the risk originate from. Today
we are third party 4th party
suppliers and I'll also add ask
Doctor Debu to come in on this
because I think from the
organization where he is or
where he was earlier, there was
a lot of compliance which used
to come to them as part of NCI
PCC.
Sorry. So should I? Yeah, go
ahead, go ahead. OK. You see, it
is the entire, you know, the
fraternity, or I would say the
entire ecosystem is maturing.
So with let's say.
You know, we just talked spoke
about IT and when when Sir was
talking about you know, how to
device, I was thinking about the
Mirai attack that happened in
2016.
In fact, that was a small core
written by uh, a student, right,
which brought down almost like
30% of the Internet by just
impacting DNS. So. So that's the
power of IoT which impacted all
the, you know, routers, webcams,
etc etc. So.
So now with with learning was
humongous, you know what I can
do because now we're not talking
about millions of devices but
billions and trillions and the
number the, the explosion of
devices is happening as we are
moving forward. So we have seen
a lot of maturity and a lot of
you know secure security
frameworks being designed for
irrated systems, right similarly
you know the manufacturers, the
suppliers.
You know, they are also bringing
that seriousness. So there is
certainly an uplift and at least
I can tell you from the
regulatory perspective that now
there is a national trusted
devices portal that is there now
vendors are being asked to
register their devices and there
is an entire process of
formulation of that trust. And
GSMA, there's another agency
that works closely with telecom
is coming up with those.
You know for certifications and
exist. So I would say that the
the entire ecosystem is, is
improving and there is a you
know and and that that is the
need of the hour. So I would say
that we are certainly moving,
but is the speed right, maybe,
maybe not. Do we need to do
more? Certainly yes. So that's
how it is. But things are facing
up, it's moving in the right
direction.
Thank you, Doctor Devi. Yeah,
just correlating what actually
we are doing in telecom space
since I came from telecom
background. So basically what
when we do the SLA agreement
with our third party vendors, we
do tell them to do the MBSS
minimum security baseline checks
and do the minimum hygiene check
which has been formulated by dot
see you will find out there are
a lot of good regulations has
been formulated by our
Government of India but.
To be very honest, they spoke
less, but they've done very
great work. If you see in the
telecom sectors, they have been
given a very good articulated
how the MBS has need to be
implemented. When I say MBS has
what actually it contains, it
contains basically the password
management and the password
management is very, very
critical and also it represents
what are the various kinds of
user access management policies
that need to be implemented when
we lease out to a very huge
amount of network.
Then you must kept the users.
Who are the users coming to the
network, what time they are
logging into the network, what
are the activities they're
doing, what are the commands
they are firing and that
commands is doing in terms of
whatever various kinds of work,
is it a legitimate users that is
doing it. So in that context
also you will find out telecom
networks rounds with a lot of
operating systems, it will runs
with a lot of various kinds of
systems which are also inbuilt.
That means there are.
Proprietary vendors, those have
inbuilt operating systems. So
the patch management system
plays a very important role to
do the patch management system.
You cannot do it by single going
to each and every system and do
the patch management. So we have
to implement the configuration
management system and automate
it. The moment you will automate
the configuration management
system, the patch will be
immediately pushed from the
center central server to the
various nodes and it will be
periodically updated.
Similarly you will find out I'll
just your ad audit is a very,
very essential part of any kind
of network because all these
things will be drafted in the
SLA with our third party which
are we are outsourcing to them.
But we have to check with a
thorough audit. So moment if we
do not do audit then you cannot
find out what are the things,
what are the SLA. They have been
have agreement with us whether
they are following those
exercises, what extent they're
following the.
SLS. So that is why the very
essential part is to do the
audit. So that's why I also give
a lead auditor course and there
have been certified ISO lead
auditors which has been goes and
deep into the systems process,
people, technology, what Sarah
told. And then they will find
out whether it has been
implemented in the system or
not. And then you will find out
what extent it has been
implemented, what extent the
SLA, because in the telecom
network we have to keep the SLA
99.9.
So that way actually we have to
go very thorough in detail to
understand how actually audit
plays a very important role in
this era.
Thank you.
There's no way, sweetie. If we
have to build out minimum
baseline security standards for
healthcare ecosystem healthcare,
where do we start?
Who would be the organization?
That would have the mandate.
And you have to ensure audit
happens or compliance happens.
See that irrespective of any
sector, including the health
sector.
You know, the baseline standard
I always recommend is ISO 27,001
coupled with.
The guidelines which is ISO 7
which is 27, ISO 27,002.
They can always be looked into.
We are not saying that going for
certification of ISO 27,001, but
definitely any industry for that
reason must have a look at.
This particular standard.
Coupled with of course the the.
Concerned sectoral.
Technical standards.
Which for which guidance can
always be taken, maybe from the
bias the ISO standards, maybe
from the sectoral industry
standards, from the NIST
standards?
But.
I SMS.
ISO 27,001 based ISS.
Can always be considered as a
baseline standard to be
followed.
Thank you.
Amit, you know you've been part
of a lot of such.
Activities on compliances.
When it comes to the actual
situation, which happens on
ground, say the aims attack, you
know, we heard that aims already
had some amount of assessments
and audits done. In fact, one of
the big fours was appointed as
their cybersecurity auditors and
they did finish an assessment,
but there were still aspects
which were left open. So where
do you think are some of the
gaps that need to be addressed?
Is it on the audit side? Is it
on the patch management side?
Is it more on the real time
monitoring?
First of all, this is the big
learning from the aims attack
that even if you are doing
regular audit, that doesn't
assure you that you will not
have any such attack.
So there were regular audits for
sure by one of the big fours.
We had that audit report.
There were some findings.
Some of these findings were
fixed. Some of these findings
were not fixed.
So another learning is yes, we
do not take these audit reports
seriously, we think.
Even if you are OK with 50% of
findings to be fixed, it's OK
even if there is one such
vulnerabilities left unpatched.
I think that.
Could damage you.
The way we have seen.
So 41357, which was focused more
on e-mail server
vulnerabilities, in this case I
think uh, leftover and.
That was their life for two
months.
In the system. So I think this
is another learning 3rd as you
have said rightly.
Uh.
That this industry itself is not
matured for with the with the
mindset problem, they don't they
they think that healthcare
sectors will never be attacked
or if even if it is attacked.
Uh.
What?
The attacker could gain out of
it.
So I think this mindset should
be changed. Now we see the value
of this data and this can be
used. So if I see that most of
these healthcare systems were
attacked even Biocon or whatever
we have seen.
The criminal was interested to
challenge the confidentiality or
availability.
We have never observed any
integrity challenge yet.
But that doesn't mean it has not
happened. Actually it has
happened that is happening, but
we can't see the repercussions
of that because it is a back
door. It is changing something.
People are not aware of it.
And by the time you realize that
this damage has happened, it is
too late.
But if the system is down or if
the data is out, I think that is
something which we clearly see
and we react to that.
So this is another problem.
I'm sure that the criminals are
trying all of these three attack
vectors to challenge
confidentiality, integrity and
availability. And 3rd, as you
said, rightly said that third
party.
Associations those are there
with these health sectors
including logistics, including
other manner this medicine
supply companies and all. They
are also not secure so the
thread could come from anywhere.
We don't have a process in place
to put guidelines on 3rd party
vendors.
And to assure them, even if we
hack a third party vendor who's
been communicating on e-mail.
And.
This third party vendor is not
having a secure e-mail server.
You could send an e-mail from
his e-mail server to the aims
e-mail. They would open it, they
will they will try to follow
that if there is a bill attached
to it or there is any invoice
attached to it. So this is
something which is which I see
that the possibilities are
enormous. It's very easy to
create such kind of challenges
for these systems because of
this missing policies and
missing systems especially
depending on so many.
Vendors. Those are communicating
directly with their authorities.
So there should be hierarchical
ways of communications
segregation of data. As far as
said, we cannot treat all data
equally.
The OPD data, the the, the, the,
the diagnostics data, the
vendors data and then finished
data and also there are
different healthcare system
itself is a big industry so it
has all, all all kind of
informations.
And we should classify it first
and then depending on the risk
associated to that data we
should apply the mechanisms.
I think that is missing right
now and that segregation is must
which Government of India in
their data privacy, but I think
they'll classify all this.
Thank you. To something which I
think few of my inputs. Sure.
Uh, teju, deep uh. I think you
come from the healthcare
industry. We want to get in your
points here. I think you wanted
to share your thoughts. Yeah,
thanks. You can unmute yourself
to HD.
We are. You're new to tasty.
I so sorry. So my name is deep
and I'm working with Fortis and
I've recently launched a new
unit in Greater Noida.
And the assessment of aims cyber
attack comes very important and
close to us because we deal with
every day out. However, the one
critical aspect of learning was
in network segmentation.
Which was not properly done.
Look at aims and it is not just
with aims, it's with everybody,
but at the end, I mean we always
look at, you know, vendors, we
always look at Slas, we always
look at the Sops, we always look
at the audit, but we always
misses the social engineering
part.
You know, somebody wanted to get
in and they got in irrespective
of all the, you know, firewalls
with all the technology in
place, but they still got in
even after the audit.
So not only does the
technological.
Check.
Takes any precedence, but also
the human check also takes equal
precedence, and that is where we
always try to ensure that the
social engineering component of
the human error is.
Not exploited. So that's my two
cents on this.
Thank you, Tep Smita, you know
you've been hearing us, you
know, recently. You know, you've
written a.
A book on IoT, right? And IoT
has huge ramification when it
comes to healthcare sector.
We've spoken on network
segmentations but when we are
working on connected.
Cyber and Physical Systems,
network segmentations, uh is
just one part. What? What are
some of the other best practices
you think are important?
Hey, yeah. Thanks for having me
here. Uh, see, uh, one very
important aspect when we are
talking about, uh, national
critical infrastructure,
specifically when we are dealing
with such a sensitive content.
Doing all this integration of
those intelligence from the
devices. Hope I'm audible there.
Yes, yes, you are. Please go
ahead.
So first, first and foremost is
like say collecting all those
signals from various uh
components because we are
talking about like say robots or
say we are talking about all
those devices which are sending
signals or say Internet enabled
devices which are like say
continuously having those feeds.
It is very, very important that
when we are putting such systems
in place, convergence is
obviously one good thing. But at
the same time are we encrypting
the data when it is passing
through?
Different places. So we were
talking about like say I was
hearing this panel here and they
were also talking about this
encryption. It is very very
important that not only storing
this data, storing it safe but
at the same time are we
encrypting it with enough strain
so that the data even if it goes
out or say it is being exchanged
for a legitimate purpose at both
the places, so data at rest and
data in motion both the places
it is safe.
And uh, when we are talking
about this critical
infrastructure UH-11 more thing
which is generally means like
say ignore when people say that
OK they are totally isolated it
and OT they're isolated there is
firewall. And actually when we
go and check the reality is
totally different.
They are having that USB or say
pen drive which is being
inserted in those critical
infrastructure or says servers
or engineering workstations for
updates or sometime given access
through Internet directly to
upgrade the system.
So that that defeats the purpose
of creating those kind of
network segmentation, right?
Because you're directly exposing
those devices without
appropriate controls. So
built-in control is another
thing which one should look
very, very carefully.
Because the way it used to be a
problem in it, now most of the
people are saying that whether
it be it cloud or say be on
Prem, all the infrastructure
should have built in security.
We are yet to see that maturity
in IoT systems.
Back to you connect. Thank you,
smita. I think we're coming
towards the end of the session,
so now would want to get in last
closing thoughts from everybody.
Maheshwari.
Uh.
I would just like to mention
that security is everybody's
responsibility.
The need for cyber security will
continue to evolve, and to that
an extent.
Organization should continue to
invest not only in terms of
technical controls, but also in
terms of.
Educating people.
Their own employees, and that's
a ongoing and a continuous
process.
Thank you.
Michael and yeah, uh, I think
my, my thought on this is that,
uh, we need to develop not only
systems, but we have to get
self-reliant with the kind of
requirements or hardware
requirements which are there. A
lot of work is already probably
going into it. We hear a lot
about chips now hopefully going
to get manufactured in India. We
need to have our own cloud. So
we need to create our own
systems and we need to do it
super fast.
So the amount of priority that
needs to be put into this,
whether it's healthcare or other
sectors, I think it's a very,
very high priority sector now.
Thank you, doctor Debu.
So I will say, uh, like we have
a HIPAA regulation which is
basically used for healthcare
systems. We need to have some
kind of regulation in India
which will create that baseline
and based on this we will find
out how it will be basically
catered to those systems. And
since medical will be very much
depends on the in future you
will be on robotic surgeries and
to understand the robotic
surgeries if very prominent.
Person needs are going under
surgery and then you will find
out the operating algorithms or
artificial intelligence
algorithms, machine learning
algorithms, if they are not
behaving transparently,
ethically and then that will
create havoc. So we must be very
sensitive. Even one human life
cause will be an essence loss.
So because because of this.
Kind of thing. So that's why uh,
maybe you can segregate if we
have the, we have a prominent
person going into that kind of
thing. So that's why bringing a
HIPAA kind of regulation and
embedding all these technologies
as technology. When you bring
the regulation of course you
cannot point out a technology
because technology agnostic
regulation you need to have to
be brought and based on this you
have to like the US, UK.
And the European Union they're
bringing and that way actually
we have to see how actually we
can brought a regulation and
that will cater to the next
generation and the next
generation you will find out
will be helpful if we brought a
specific medical kind of devices
regulated by a robust regulation
mechanism.
Thank you, smita. Your thoughts
in terms of what we can do more?
Sure, sure. So one thing is
very, uh, uh, good or say when
we are sitting here together, it
is a private and public
partnership where we say that,
OK, we know three things are
needed, people, process and
technology, all three together.
We have to bond to bring this
change which we are speaking
about. All these things has to
be in place. The right
technology, the right people and
the processes obviously will
help us to navigate this
situation.
Where we are today and it is
very, very important that we
pull these things together and
and create such a bond or say
that Community where we talk and
we we create that that connect.
So back to your kanesh.
Thank you, Samuel. Thank you,
smita. This is very helpful.
Salil.
See, I was, uh, you know, I
remembered in 2017, I guess
about company recalled almost
like 4,00,000 or five Lac
pacemakers because they were
vulnerable to cyber patches,
right. And in the vicinity
somebody can do some, you know,
manipulation in terms of even a
skip of heartbeat was possible.
It happened in 2017 I guess.
What I foresee probably is being
a tech enthusiast that what
Fintech has seen, what Edtech
has seen, what other you know,
industry verticals are seeing as
a, as a, you know similarly
health, health track is is
coming up right. We have such
intelligent devices coming up
and this will with the amount of
you know hail surveillance or
you know diseases that are
coming up the health sector will
take.
A major, you know in times to
come maybe in the near future.
So you know because of IoT, 5G
etcetera, etcetera. So the the
impact of this sector is
humongous and it adds the
element of you know health and
safety into cyber. So just not
confidentiality, integrity and
availability, but it's a matter
of you know maybe life and
death. So that's serious this
industry would be and the.
The appliances and applications
so.
We all have to bridge it up and
bring all our learnings,
capability building what our
speaker has said, you know that
we have to bring in House
capability and that's that's how
we'll be able to sail through
this, this thing.
Thank you, Technip. Penny, you
know, closing remarks from you.
Umm.
So I would just add on to what
Salil said that you know, what
we learned from the health,
Fintech and other technology
aspects, you know, harm in other
industries are more of monetary.
You know, but when it comes to
health tech, the harm is life
itself.
And, you know, we look at life
day in, day out and you know,
the only happiness which a
hospital or a health environment
provides is probably a birthing
experience. But apart from that,
everything is about, you know,
loss for recovery.
So I think anybody is going to
work in the health tech or the
healthcare department in the
technology or the IT or I, you
know, information technology,
the last headache he wants is to
be blamed.
For the death of someone because
a virus got through.
So I think seriousness at all
levels of policymaking should
address that.
That you know, somebody can hack
into somebody near and dear ones
pacemaker.
And cause an undamaged causes
severe damage without the poor
guy you know, not even knowing
it. Then being involved as a
leverage for some great
policymaking because some hacker
somewhere has a hold on your
father's or your brothers or
your own pacemaker.
Absolutely. That's it. Thanks.
Thanks, Daisy. Amit.
I have. I have a take on like we
all were.
Concern for the situation when
these attacks will become so
sophisticated that they can take
some life. What if they are
already taking?
Life and we don't know.
Did we do any such investigation
research. So that is my bigger
concern that if it is already
happening and we are not
noticing it and there are people
that are taking advantage of
such ignorance because we are
not focusing. OK, every day
people are dying. So So what if
two more people?
Are added in that list. So I
think this is something which we
should take very very seriously
and it should not be just an
assumption that it will happen.
I'm sure if it will happen, it
is happening.
It is happening in round the
corners second.
They're also taking quantum very
lightly. So we need to move from
secure to quantum safe very
soon, very very fast. That is my
another request to all these
sectors. And 3rd there are also
non IT components, so we always
think that component those are
connected to Internet. This
could only be the entry points
to such attacks. No it is there
are RF attacks directly that can
happen through these devices and
if you just.
Do a little research, you will
find there are cases registered
reported worldwide where RF
attack happened and they they
took life. So I think especially
for healthcare sector, we should
also consider security for these
kind of attack vectors. So these
are a few of my inputs for
today's as a conclusive remark.
Thank you.
Thank you everyone.
With this, we come now towards
the, uh, you know, end of the
session. So I'd like to thank
our honorable speakers, Mr.
Maheshwari, Major Bananan Salil
Mittal.
Terrence Gomes, uh Smita Jain,
Dr. Debu Nayak.
Satish Deep Singh Randhawa and
Kapil Madan.
Who joined us?
Amit dubey.
And Pankaj, uh, we'll take all
the inputs and we'll be
submitting our recommendations
to the office of the National
Cyber Security Coordinator, NCI,
PCC and to Ministry of
Electronics Information
Technology on what are some of
the steps that could be taken
into consideration and when CERT
is coming out. With this new
guidelines, what could be done
particularly to look at the
healthcare ecosystem attacks
which are in place, right. Thank
you everyone who joined us
virtually and in physically in
person we'll now.
End the session. Look forward to
keeping in touch with you. We'll
reach out to you for specific
inputs for our White Paper and.
A report which we will be
creating as part of this
consultation. Thank you so much.
Thank you, everyone. Take care.
Thank you, thank you, thank you,
thank you. Thank you.
Thanks for that. Thanks. So
thanks everyone.
Thank you. No, actually we can't
have tea, but I request everyone
to enjoy their yeah high T and
snacks. Thanks. Thanks. Thanks,
manmeet. Alright, thank you.
Bye, bye. Thank you.